feat: improve the preview script and related documentation (#222)
bonitasoft/bonita-documentation-site: README.adoc

*_DISCLAIMER: this is a work in progress._*

This repository let you generate the Bonita documentation site. It uses {url-antora}[Antora] which processes {url-asciidoctor}:[Asciidoctor]
documentation content stored in various Git repositories.

== Documentation

See the xref:./docs/README[dedicated folder] for

* documentation content contribution tips/guidelines
* architecture
* maintainers guides
* and much more

== Build

=== Requirements

> {url-node}[Node 12.x] (may work with newer versions, no guarantee).For more details, see the  https://docs.antora.org/antora/2.3/install-and-run-quickstart/[Antora installation guide].

Author: ```suggestion
{url-node}[Node 12.x] (may work with newer versions, no guarantee). For more details, see the  https://docs.antora.org/antora/2.3/install-and-run-quickstart/[Antora installation guide].
```

While you can install Node from the official packages, we strongly recommend that you use {url-nvm}[nvm] (Node Version Manager) to install and manage Node.
Follow the {url-nvm-install}[nvm installation instructions] to set up nvm on your machine.

[NOTE]
====
* all commands are intended to be run from the repository root folder.
* the generated documentation is available in the `build/site` folder.
====

Don't forget to run `npm install` the first time you build the project or on `package.json` changes.

Check that the `Antora` CLI is available by calling `./node_modules/.bin/antora --version`.

[#non-production-build]
== Non production build

[[preview]]
=== Preview support

The easiest way is to use a script that generates the documentation partially and/or with specific settings for both local
developments, Pull Request previews or to produce documentation archives.

This includes building the documentation using:

* already checkout local documentation content repositories
* single branch for all components
* single branch of a single component

> * ....

Author: ```suggestion
* a set of branches of various components. This is let validate https://docs.antora.org/antora/2.3/page/version-and-component-xrefs/[references between pages that belong to different docs components and/or versions]
* ....
```

To know all available options, run
[source,shell script]
----
./build-preview.bash --help
----

[NOTE]
=====
An additional `build-preview-dev.bash` script is available: it calls `build-preview.bash` with convenient defaults for
local build. +
In the following, we use both scripts indifferently.
=====

==== Preview support overview

The documentation is built by passing a playbook file to the Antora CLI. For more details, see
https://docs.antora.org/antora/2.3/cli/options/[Antora CLI documentation].

For the preview support, we generate a dedicated Antora playbook based on the production playbook store in the repository
and options passed to the `build-preview.bash`. +
Then, this custom playbook is passed to the Antora CLI along with specific options when needed.

[[local-content]]
==== Using local documentation content repositories

This activates the https://docs.antora.org/antora/2.3/playbook/author-mode/[Antora author mode]. +
Antora uses the locally cloned repositories as they are on your local machine instead of cloning them from their remote location.

> This provides a fast feedback loop as you don't need to push nor commit sources content as the current work or make developments
> easier when working offline.

Author: ```suggestion
This provides a fast feedback loop as you don't need to push nor commit sources content. This also makes developments easier when working offline.
```

[NOTE]
====
* all commands are intended to be run from the repository root folder.
* the generated documentation is available in the `build/site` folder.
====

Don't forget to run `npm install` the first time you build the project or on `package.json` changes.

Check that the `Antora` CLI is available by calling `./node_modules/.bin/antora --version`.

[#non-production-build]
== Non production build

[[preview]]
=== Preview support

The easiest way is to use a script that generates the documentation partially and/or with specific settings for both local
developments, Pull Request previews or to produce documentation archives.

This includes building the documentation using:

* already checkout local documentation content repositories
* single branch for all components
* single branch of a single component
* a set of branches of various components. This is let validate https://docs.antora.org/antora/2.3/page/version-and-component-xrefs/[references between pages that belong to different docs components and/or versions]
* ....

To know all available options, run
[source,shell script]
----
./build-preview.bash --help
----

> 

Reviewer: I would put around here an example of the command line (copy past ready) to build and preview the site for a given branch with local sources -> It's an interesting use case IMHO, it allows contributors to have a preview without opening a pull request, which is what you wanna do when you are working on a big contribution

Author: yes good idea, I will also put the example to build cross component versions like in https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-documentation-site/pull/222#issuecomment-814609850

Author: done in 4227066, feel free to update the example and explanation if it is uncleared. As I have developed the script and use it a lot, I am biased and don't know really what is needed to let a new comer understand how it works 😄
